speech01.wav	We'll hear argument in Case sixteen twelve fifteen, Lamar, Archer and Cofrin versus Appling. Mr. Garre. Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice, and may it please the Court: Section 523 A 2 A of the Bankruptcy Code prohibits the discharge of debts procured by fraudulent statements, other than a statement respecting the debtor's financial condition. Everyone agrees that financial condition is a term of art used by Congress and in commercial practice to refer to one's overall financial status. Yet, Respondent and the government ask this Court to interpret Section five twenty three and, in particular, Congress's use of "respecting" to eliminate the meaning of "financial condition," of a term of art, and essentially to
speech02.wav	substitute the word "finances" for it. Can you tell me, Mr. Garre, what is a statement respecting financial condition? In addition to a balance sheet and a profit and loss statement, what else would qualify? Sure. Well, our view is that a statement respecting financial condition is a statement that purports to present a picture of one's overall financial situation. And there are several things that could qualify as em as that. One would, of course, be a classic balance statement or sheet. Another would be an indication of net em net wealth or overall income em a net worth. Another would be a credit score, such as those that were common in 1926, when Congress passed this statute. Another would be
speech03.wav	net cash flow. All of these things look to one's overall financial situation, not to just one side of the ledger, an asset or a liability, and present a picture of overall financial status. And, again, Respondent's interpretation of "respecting" essentially eliminates that term as a term of limitation and as a term of art and substitutes the word "finances" for it. So a statement about any individual input, any individual asset, any individual liability suddenly becomes a statement respecting financial condition. And I think there are three central problems with -- with -- with Respondent's interpretation of "respecting." The first is, as I mentioned, that -that their reading of "respecting"
speech04.wav	mean "related to" eliminates Congress's decision to use the term of art "financial condition." It would be an odd thing for Congress to say we're going to refer to "financial condition" but then essentially eliminate the meaning of that by saying "respecting financial condition." And there's no reason why the Court has to interpret "respecting" to mean "related to." It can mean "related to." But it can also mean "about." And here in context, reading "respecting financial condition" to mean a statement about financial condition makes perfect sense. To say something is "about" means it refers to the subject of the object. Here, the object is the statement and here the subject is financial condition, one's overall financial status. So the fact that their reading of "respecting" to mean "related to" would eliminate "financial
speech05.wav	condition" as a term of art and a term of limitation is the first reason why this Court Could you tell me, Mr. Mr. Garre, what you think the difference is between "relating to" and "about"? I think, Your Honor, if -if you go to the dictionary, the dictionary -the definition that we provide for "about" means "on the subject of." It refers to the subject -- the subject here is financial condition. "Relating to" is a much broader term of breadth or at least can be used in that way. I mean, this Court famously -- as Justice Scalia famously said, everything is related to everything essentially. Yeah I mean, it's a term of great breadth. So there's something intuitive about what you just said, but then I started trying to come up with sentences in my head where I switched the two words, and I honestly couldn't find one where they meant something different. So I'm -- I'm hoping -I'm hoping you can help me come up with those examples where -- you know, just
speech06.wav	give me a sentence where if you have "about," it means something different than if you have "relating to." Okay. Tell me about Ted Williams's batting average. And, here, we're using "about" and we're also using "batting average," which is a relative -- relative term, versus: Tell me something relating to his batting average. And I think you could see in that sentence that "relating to" is a much broader term, going to capture things like, oh, well, he struck out in the seventh inning versus, well, you know, he hit 400. It was an amazing season. Or he -- he almost hit the ball just -- he was almost just as likely to hit the ball as he was to not hit it. That's a statement about batting average. Nobody would think that if you said tell me about your GPA, and you said, well, gee, I missed the -- the last question on my last test, that that may be a
speech07.wav	certainly a statement relating to your GPA, that -- that missing that question is going to impact, have some relationship to your EPA, but you wouldn't think of that as a statement about your GPA. And that's the way in which Congress was using "about" -- "respecting" here, as a preposition to modify "financial condition." I'm -- Mr. Garre, the problem I have with your example is if I asked you tell me about your batting average and you said, em I hit 5 out of 10 or I hit 6 out of 10, you would be answering that question, or you could say I hit 5 out of 10 em when I was in a -- in a position to score a run. So the "about" would be answered in both ways. Well, I think, first of all, are you referring to the subject
speech08.wav	The "respecting"would be answered in both ways. Well, you're -- you're referring to the subject, the batting average there. And your answer, actually, provide -looked at both sides of the equation: How many hits he got and how many times at bat he got. So, in that sense, that's different than just saying we're talking about an individual asset. And then I think the sort of -- the ambiguity in your question was, did you mean his batting average in the game or his season? And maybe that would be something you would follow up on. But I think that your expression of that is perfectly consistent with our view, and sort of - A problem. You produced an irresistible example which I can't resist. And, therefore, I suspect that the key of your example is the word -- the word "something," not the word "respecting." And when you say "tell me about," what usually that means is "all about." But let's try it with the word
speech09.wav	which is in the statute. Make a statement about his batting average. Make a statement respecting his batting average. There, I'm with Justice Kagan; I have a hard time seeing the difference. Well, Your Honor, "a statement respecting" is still going to refer to about his batting average, the subject of it. Not -- I think if you said tell me a statement about his No, not tell me. Make - Make? a statement about his batting average Sure. He hit the Make a statement respecting his batting average. Now you used "statement" and now there we are. He hit the ball more than he struck out, versus he was -- that's a statement respecting batting average, versus he was robbed of a hit in the seventh inning by a great catch. That's not a statement respecting I'll take it -- I'll take it under consideration. And what -- Mr. Garre
speech10.wav	what trouble -- what if the debtor makes a statement about a specific asset or a liability, but anybody -- but the reasonable listener would take that to be a statement about or respecting financial situation? So our view, Justice Alito, is this Court should follow what Congress said and say that a statement about a single asset or a single liability is not a statement respecting financial condition. It's just not. If you disagree with that, then I think one fallback position the Court could take would be something like what you said: A reasonable person would view that as a statement about one's overall financial situation. Now this case couldn't be -- possibly be viewed in that way because it was clear that this was a statement about only
speech11.wav	a single asset and it was a statement in spite of his financial condition. So the Court couldn't possibly say that the statement in this case, about an individual tax refund, would be viewed, as a reasonable person, in this context dealing with a businessman, as a statement about I don't -- I don't follow that. Maybe you can explain that. I thought this was a law firm that had a client who was in default, and so the law firm said we're going to stop representing you. And the client said: Oh, don't do that. I'm going to get a tax refund and it will enable me to pay your bill. Why isn't that a statement reflecting -- respecting the financial position, the law firm knowing that the
speech12.wav	the client was unable to pay, wasn't paying his bills, and then the client says: I can come up with something that will assure you I will be able to pay this bill Sure. And this is -- you know, can come up in any number of situations dealing with collateral, whereas it's not uncommon for someone to know that another person is in dire financial straits but, nevertheless, to accept collateral in exchange for property or services as a means of paying for that. That's not a statement about overall financial condition. It's a statement that I have an asset can be -- that can be used to pay a debt. And this case was litigated all the way up on the premise that the statement at issue here was a statement about his tax refund, an individual asset. They argued below that, in fact, what the law firm was relying upon was its knowledge
speech13.wav	of his precarious financial condition. And the bankruptcy court rejected that and found that, no, it was relying on his statement about the tax refund. The district court rejected that, found he was relying on -- it was relying on a statement about the tax refund. And I don't even think they appealed that finding to the Eleventh Circuit. So I think that that's why this case is truly the case about a statement about a single asset, a -- a tax refund, that the debtor in this case lied about. And -- and this -- this paradigm here, the sort of classic collateral paradigm, we're talking about a single asset, couldn't be further removed from the situation that Congress was addressing. And I know not all members of the Court may want to look to that legislative history, but it's sort of the gorilla -- it's the elephant in the room here. And that's that when Congress was looking at this situation in 1978, what it was doing is looking at a particular
speech14.wav	abusive practice by some creditors, which were using written financial statements essentially to dupe applicants for credit into making false statements by simply omitting debts or assets on those statements, and then using that as coercion once they went into bankruptcy. And so Congress passed a specific rule that dealt with written financial statements Mr. Garre, I'm not sure I understand how that helps you even on its own terms, assuming I'd be willing to look at it, of course. But if Congress's concern is that creditors are soliciting information that's incomplete about debts, liabilities, that's just half of the balance sheet that you want us to look at. So Congress appears to have been concerned, to the extent
speech15.wav	tell these things, about misstatements only with respect to one-half of overall financial condition. Right? Well, I don't think that's completely correct, Your Honor, in the sense that Good. How? that the legislative record makes clear that the forms, the financial statements that creditors were using, were statements that referred to both liabilities and assets. So those were financial statements about financial conditions. Right. No, I understand that, but the concern is that the misstatements were with respect to omitted liabilities, right? Congress -- the -- the creditors in that situation were using forms that represented one's overall financial status, referring to a credit score, net worth But doesn't that show that an omitted liability, one asset or lack -- or one debt, can reflect on the overall